---
title: The 3-1-3-3
date: 2024-08-25
hero: /images/madridlogo.webp
excerpt: The new formation taking over football
timeToRead: 2
authors:
  - Smyan Narang
---

<style>
  img {
    max-width: 100%;
    height: auto;
    display: block;
    margin: 0 auto;
  }
</style>

One of the most common build up shapes that we have seen emerge since the 2023/24 season has been the 3-1-3-3 shape. This build up shape was first popularised by Real Madrid in the 23/24 season, with Toni Kroos dropping into the backline to act as a 3rd CB in build up, allowing both the fullbacks to push up and provide the width and allowing the wingers to tuck into the half spaces. This formation particularly suited Real Madrid as both of their wingers are more direct threats in front of goal and also are renowned to use their pace to make runs in behind, and this shape allowed these off ball runs to be in more advantageous areas. This shape also allowed them to be in close proximity to each other and Jude Bellingham, who was given the licence to free roam as a false 9. This shape maximised rotations among the front 3, making it very tough to defend against Real Madrid. It also allowed Toni Kroos to have more space and time on the ball, as he would receive the ball facing the opposition goal and can dictate the play from deep without being pressed. This shape does require great ball winners, as the holding mid as the responsibility to defend the whole area of the pitch in front of the back 3, and this formation suited Tchouameni’s abilities as well. Madrid won a Champions League using this formation

The 2nd big team to use this was Julian Nagelsmann’s Germany, albeit with different reasons and a different playstyle. Germany has two of the best number 10s in world football in the form of Jamal Musiala and Florian Wirtz. It was nearly impossible to drop any of them with the kind of form they were in. Germany were massively struggling as a team, and the shift in formation massively helped them turn their rut around. Once again, the missing link was Toni Kroos. Toni Kroos dropping into the backline once again allowed the fullbacks to push up and provide width. This allowed Wirtz and Musiala, who were wingers on paper, to come inside and affect play in the middle of the pitch. The trio of Musiala, Wirtz and Gundogan constantly dropped between the lines and affected play. Kai Havertz served as a target man for the most part, and also somewhat of a decoy, making off ball runs to stretch the opposition and give more space to the attacking midfielders to function. Once again this system required an excellent ball winner, and Andrich provided just that. Germany were neck and neck with Spain, the tournament winners, and due to poor finishing and a questionable decision by the referee, they were knocked out. I have no doubt that they would have reached the final had they not faced Spain in the quarter final. This system worked wonders for Germany, and completely changed their form. 

Recently, Manchester City have also adapted this shape, once again in a different form. For Manchester City, one of their biggest problems was when they were facing a 4 2 4 pressing shape, which reduced central progression. The 3 1 3 3 shape, which often transitioned into a 3 3 4 buildup shape, helped them regain control in the midfield by having 3 deeper midfielders drop in between the lines and drive forward. This was observed in both the Community Shield and the first Premier League match against Chelsea. For Manchester City, no midfielder dropped into the defensive line. Rather, a defender inverted into midfield to provide that numerical superiority in the midfield. This is a system that is much safer than Pep’s 2 3 5 from last year, as it doesn’t push any defenders further up the pitch, significantly improving the rest defence. 

I expect even more teams to implement this build up shape in the future. A team like Arsenal could invert Calafiori into midfield while Odegaard or Rice drop deep to provide that numerical advantage in deeper areas, and even teams like Barcelona could use this shape with a player like Frenkie De Jong dropping into the backline. 

It does have some weaknesses, but every formation has its strengths and weaknesses, and needs to be chosen based on the opposition 
